README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://drone.friedl.net/api/badges/incubator/fling/status.svg)](https://drone.friedl.net/incubator/fling)

# Fling
Fling is a self-hosted file share. It is simple like USB without missing out on
the good parts of a web app:
- Just drop files on a Fling and share the URL
- Choose your own name for your share-URL
- Share a direct download link
- Let others upload files
- Protect your fling by a password - no registration required
- Let a fling expire after a date or a number of clicks

# API
Fling is distributed as both, a backend service and a web interface. You can use
the backend on its own with any [HTTP client](examples).

Per default Fling publishes a Swagger UI page and an OpenAPI spec. You can find
them here:

``` http
http://<host>:<port>/swagger-ui.html
http://<host>:<port>/v3/api-docs
```

If starting the fling container locally, the default `<host>:<port>` is
http://localhost:3000. You can also find a recent version of it via
https://fling.friedl.net/swagger-ui.html and
https://fling.friedl.net/v3/api-docs.

# Starting Fling from Docker
A Fling container is provided at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/arminfriedl/fling. 

1. Run `docker run --rm -p3000:3000 arminfriedl/fling` 
2. Go to the default http://localhost:3000
3. Log in with `adminName:adminPassword`.

## Configuring Fling
The Fling container can be configured by environment variables.

The web interface configuration ([config.js](web/fling/public/config.js)/[config.js.template](container/var/www/fling/config.js.template)) will be
filled by `envsubst` when the container starts up.
``` sh
# The base URL of the Fling API service
FLING_API_BASE=http://localhost:3000
# Log level of the application
FLING_LOG_LEVEL=warn
# Max. upload size in bytes. Checked on client side.
FLING_FILESIZE=209715200
```

The Fling service configuration is a standard spring configuration. It can be
set by environement variables or any other [configuration externalization supported by spring boot]
(https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/spring-boot-features.html#boot-features-external-config)).
Refer to the [application-prod.yml](service/fling/src/main/resources/application-prod.yml) for configuration options.

Commit message:

Archive Fling
Update README, make Swagger UI page accessible

README.md, after:

**12.01.2021: Fling has moved to the attic**

Fling was a good learning experiment for a non-trivial React app with a REST
backend. However, it never really got any traction and I'm not using it anymore.
Other projects are more important to me and maintaining Fling does not make any
sense. As of now docker containers are deleted and the artifacts are not
distributed anymore. You are free to fork and build your own version but no more
work will be done in this repository.

Alternatives:
- If you are looking for mature self-hosted file sharing solution,
  [ownCloud](https://owncloud.com/) is in many ways similar to Fling and then
  some.
- If you want an even simpler solution for sharing files over http,
  [dirl](https://github.com/arminfriedl/dirl) might meet your needs.

# Fling
Fling is a self-hosted file share. It is simple like USB without missing out on
the good parts of a web app:
- Just drop files on a Fling and share the URL
- Choose your own name for your share-URL
- Share a direct download link
- Let others upload files
- Protect your fling by a password - no registration required
- Let a fling expire after a date or a number of clicks

# API
Fling is distributed as both, a backend service and a web interface. You can use
the backend on its own with any [HTTP client](examples).

Per default Fling publishes a Swagger UI page and an OpenAPI spec. You can find
them here:

``` http
http://<host>:<port>/swagger-ui.html
http://<host>:<port>/v3/api-docs
```

If starting the fling container locally, the default `<host>:<port>` is
http://localhost:3000. You can also find a recent version of it via
https://fling.friedl.net/swagger-ui.html and
https://fling.friedl.net/v3/api-docs.

# Starting Fling from Docker
A Fling container is provided at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/arminfriedl/fling.

1. Run `docker run --rm -p3000:3000 arminfriedl/fling`
2. Go to the default http://localhost:3000
3. Log in with `adminName:adminPassword`.

## Configuring Fling
The Fling container can be configured by environment variables.

The web interface configuration ([config.js](web/fling/public/config.js)/[config.js.template](container/var/www/fling/config.js.template)) will be
filled by `envsubst` when the container starts up.
``` sh
# The base URL of the Fling API service
FLING_API_BASE=http://localhost:3000
# Log level of the application
FLING_LOG_LEVEL=warn
# Max. upload size in bytes. Checked on client side.
FLING_FILESIZE=209715200
```

The Fling service configuration is a standard spring configuration. It can be
set by environement variables or any other [configuration externalization supported by spring boot]
(https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/spring-boot-features.html#boot-features-external-config)).
Refer to the [application-prod.yml](service/fling/src/main/resources/application-prod.yml) for configuration options.
